Add `otel.receiver.aws_firehose` component (#6005)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose/
description: Learn about otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose
title: otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose
---

# otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose

`otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` accepts cloudwatch json-formatted traces over the network and

> forwards it to other `otelcol.*` components.

Reviewer: The [upstream](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/awsfirehosereceiver) component mentions this as its intro:

```
Receiver for ingesting AWS Kinesis Data Firehose delivery stream messages and parsing the records received based on the configured record type.
```

Are the two statements compatible (I'm not familiar with firehose tbh). Also, just to make sure, does this receiver receive JSON-formatted traces and forwards metrics generated out of them?

Finally, the upstream docs mention that:
```
The AWS Kinesis Data Firehose Delivery Streams currently only support HTTPS endpoints using port 443. This can be potentially circumvented using a Load Balancer.
```

Is it applicable to this component as well? Should we copy this over?

Author: To answer your first question, yes, the two statements are compatible, as AWS Kinesis Data Firehose Delivery Streams is the service used by Cloudwatch to send metrics  streams to an HTTP endpoint. I will clarify it in the doc.

For the second point, I did not explain it clearly. The receiver receives JSON-formatted metrics from AWS and forward them to other otel components.

As for the HTTPS-only endpoint, since it's a requirement from the AWS side, I will add the information to the doc.

> **NOTE**: `otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` is a wrapper over the upstream
> OpenTelemetry Collector `awsfirehose` receiver. Bug reports or feature requests
> will be redirected to the upstream repository, if necessary.

Multiple `otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

## Usage

```river
otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose "LABEL" {
  output {
    metrics = [...]
  }
}
```

## Arguments

`otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `record_type` | `string` | The type of record being received from the delivery stream. | `cwmetrics` | no

Reviewer: Can we also document AccessKey here?

`otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` receives metrics from [Cloudwatch Metrics Streams](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-Metric-Streams.html) using AWS Kinesis Data Firehose and forwards it to other `otelcol.*` components.

Set the output format of the Metrics Stream to JSON. Make sure the receiver is accessible by AWS on port 443. You can set the output format with a load balancer.

{{% admonition type="note" %}}
`otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` is a wrapper over the upstream OpenTelemetry Collector `awsfirehose` receiver. If necessary, bug reports or feature requests are redirected to the upstream repository.
{{% /admonition %}}

You can specify multiple `otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` components by giving them different labels.

## Usage

```river
otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose "LABEL" {
  endpoint = "0.0.0.0:4433"
  output {
    metrics = [...]
  }
}
```

## Arguments

`otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`record_type` | `string` | The type of record received from the delivery stream. | `cwmetrics` | no

> `access_key` | `string` | The access key to be checked on each request received. | | no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`access_key` | `secret ` | The access key to be checked on each request received. | | no
```

`endpoint` | `string` | `host:port` to listen for traffic on. | `"0.0.0.0:4433"` | no
`max_request_body_size` | `string` | Maximum request body size the HTTP server will allow. No limit when unset. | | no
`include_metadata` | `boolean` | Propagate incoming connection metadata to downstream consumers. | | no

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`access_key` can be set when creating or updating the delivery stream. See the [AWS Firehose documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/firehose/latest/dev/create-destination.html#create-destination-http) for more details.
```

> ### Record Types
> 
> - `cwmetrics`: The record type for the CloudWatch metric stream. Expects the format for the records to be JSON. See documentation for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The supported values for `record_type`  are:
* `cwmetrics`: The record type for the CloudWatch metric stream. Expects the format for the records to be JSON. See the [CloudWatch documentation][cloudwatch-metric-streams] for details.
[cloudwatch-metric-streams]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-Metric-Streams.html
```

`max_age` | `number` | Configures the `Access-Control-Max-Age` response header. | | no

The `allowed_headers` argument specifies which headers are acceptable from a
CORS request. The following headers are always implicitly allowed:

* `Accept`
* `Accept-Language`
* `Content-Type`
* `Content-Language`

If `allowed_headers` includes `"*"`, all headers are permitted.

### debug_metrics block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/otelcol-debug-metrics-block.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT_VERSION>" >}}

### output block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/output-block.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT_VERSION>" >}}

## Exported fields

`otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` does not export any fields.

## Component health

`otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` does not expose any component-specific debug
information.

## Example

This example forwards received metrics through a batch processor before finally
sending it to an OTLP-capable endpoint:

```river

> otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose "default" {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose "default" {
  endpoint = "0.0.0.0:4433"
```

---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/send-data/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose/
description: Learn about otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose
title: otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose
---

# otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose

> `otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` recieve metrics from [Cloudwatch Metrics Streams](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-Metric-Streams.html) using AWS Kinesis Data Firehose and forwards it to other `otelcol.*` components.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` receives metrics from [Cloudwatch Metrics Streams](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/CloudWatch-Metric-Streams.html) using AWS Kinesis Data Firehose and forwards it to other `otelcol.*` components.
```

> The output format of the Metrics Stream needs to be set to JSON and the reciever needs to be accessible on the 443 port by AWS, this can be done using a Load Balancer

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Set the output format of the Metrics Stream to JSON. Make sure the receiver is accessible by AWS on port 443. You can set the output format with a load balancer.
```

> > **NOTE**: `otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` is a wrapper over the upstream
> > OpenTelemetry Collector `awsfirehose` receiver. Bug reports or feature requests
> > will be redirected to the upstream repository, if necessary.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{% admonition type="note" %}}
`otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` is a wrapper over the upstream OpenTelemetry Collector `awsfirehose` receiver. If necessary, bug reports or feature requests are redirected to the upstream repository.
{{% /admonition %}}
```

Is it necessary to mention that bug reports are sent upstream?  I think we could remove this.

> Multiple `otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` components can be specified by giving them
> different labels.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can specify multiple `otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` components by giving them different labels.
```

## Usage

```river
otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose "LABEL" {
  endpoint = "0.0.0.0:4433"
  output {
    metrics = [...]
  }
}
```

## Arguments

`otelcol.receiver.awsfirehose` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `record_type` | `string` | The type of record being received from the delivery stream. | `cwmetrics` | no

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`record_type` | `string` | The type of record received from the delivery stream. | `cwmetrics` | no
```

`access_key` | `string` | The access key to be checked on each request received. | | no
`endpoint` | `string` | `host:port` to listen for traffic on. | `"0.0.0.0:4433"` | no
`max_request_body_size` | `string` | Maximum request body size the HTTP server will allow. No limit when unset. | | no
`include_metadata` | `boolean` | Propagate incoming connection metadata to downstream consumers. | | no

### Record Types

> - `cwmetrics` : The record type for the CloudWatch metric stream. Expects the format for the records to be JSON. See documentation for details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `cwmetrics`: The record type for the CloudWatch metric stream. Expects the format for the records to be JSON. See documentation for details.
```

We should add an outbound link to the exact documentation referenced.
